Michael Franz: Hi everybody, welcome to Week six where we're going to talk
about campaign finance and a lot today. I want to spend a fair amount of time
walking us through some of the some of the online resources that we can use to
Michael Franz: To track campaign financing and and then look up some examples
and play with some of those websites, a little bit and then I encourage you to
do the same. Michael Franz: For your campaigns in the coming week we won't see
new data on there, as I'll show you in a second. We're still waiting on the
reporting to happen in the third quarter of Michael Franz: The election year,
but those data will be available to us by the second half of October and into
the aftermath of the election. Michael Franz: And then we'll be able to dig
into those data a little bit before we we finish up the semester I Michael
Franz: wish we had more up to date data, but it's it's a lot of reporting that
campaigns have to do and to process all the money that's coming into campaigns
and being moved around by various committees. Michael Franz: It's not easy to
have that sort of up to date in real time digitally and available to the
public. But there are a lot of resources online for us to see what we do have
Michael Franz: And there are mandates that campaigns report fairly frequently
up to the elite up to the election. So we have data, but it's not perfect.
Michael Franz: And so I want to walk us through a variety of those those issues
today in the second lecture, I'll spend some more time talking a bit more
normatively Michael Franz: About what I think are some of the underlying
debates in the role of campaign finance. It's a bit more of a of a thought
lecture than a sort of walking us through some some nuts and bolts. So first,
though, there's, there's a lot of ways to attack this Michael Franz: Let me
Michael Franz: I'm going to show you a bunch of things today. But I want to
start with perhaps some basic overview Michael Franz: I'm going to move in and
out of this slideshow now and then. Michael Franz: Show you some stuff online.
And then, and then I'll come back to this PowerPoint in second hand or at least
in the second lecture of week so Michael Franz: You know, there's a lot of ways
to think about this. And the first way to think about this is to talk about as
the book does Michael Franz: The players that the kinds of entities that we
will see who are involved in campaign finance. Michael Franz: I've left off
individuals from this list but individuals we as citizens are really the
primary players we we donate Michael Franz: Most of the money in campaigns even
packs which donate money to candidates are raising most of their money from
citizens affiliated with the pack. So at the end of the day, most of the money
in elections comes from the pocketbooks Michael Franz: Of American voters. If
you trace it all the way back. And so, you know, we're interested in the sort
of candidates their fundraising and the rules for them part of committees, the
Democratic and Republican parties and they have a bunch of Michael Franz:
Subsidiary committees that do work in various campaign environment. So the
Democratic Party has the democratic congressional campaign committee with the D
triple C as they call it. Michael Franz: Which just does fundraising for the
party and House races. They also have the democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee, which does fundraising for the party and Senate races and then each
Michael Franz: Each state has a Democratic Party, Wisconsin, the Democratic
Party of Montana. So there are a lot of different party committees affiliated
with the broader Democratic Party and the same is true for republicans Michael
Franz: There are traditional packs. These are packs formed by labor unions or
corporations or ideological groups to raise money from their members and donate
that money to candidates. Michael Franz: There are now super PACs, which I'll
talk more about in just a second. And then there are nonprofit groups that are
not officially political action committees are Michael Franz: Officially packs
that register with the Federal Election Commission which collects and regulates
all this money and I'll show you their website in a minute. Michael Franz: But
they claim to be there sort of free to do some electioneering work, but they
also claim to not be primarily interested in elections, but to be primarily
interested in Michael Franz: Educational advocacy of issues, but they end up
doing a lot of a lot of electioneering Michael Franz: So there's a couple of, I
think, a core things that I want us to consider. You don't have to agree with
me on any of this, but to consider when we go through all this. Michael Franz:
Which is that I would argue, and I don't think again, these are not universal
truths and these are not Michael Franz: Without debate, but I would argue that
can candidate fundraising is something that we could consider pretty contained
Michael Franz: Pretty well contained given the rules as they exist at the
federal level. Let me jump ahead here to this next slide and show you what I
mean by that. This is from the Federal Election Commission. This is the
contribution limits from donors to recipients to certain recipients Michael
Franz: In the 2019 2020 election cycle. The some of these limits change from
cycle to cycle as our index to inflation. For example, contributions will go up
as Michael Franz: As inflation goes up, but and some don't. But, but these are
the 2019 2020 presidential election cycle figures. Michael Franz: And so the
interesting thing here is this candidate committee, calm down over here, which
shows us what candidates can raise in the maximum from different dumbs Michael
Franz: So individuals can contribute at most $2,800 per election to to a
candidate per election in this case means primary election and PR general
election. So if a candidate wants to raise 20 $800 from for me in their primary
campaign that's an election and then I could give them 20 $800 Michael Franz:
For their general reaction I can give him up upwards of $5,600 I won't, because
I don't have that much money to give to candidates, but I could I could get
$5,600 Michael Franz: To candidates if they have a primary campaign, most, most
candidates do so, but that's the most that I can give us the most that Bill
Gates can give. It's the most that Zuckerberg can give. It's the most that any
wealthy individual can give to a candidate directly Michael Franz: Candidates
can give money to other candidates, but that's limited packs right here, not
really interested Michael Franz: In the differences between multi candidate
normal to candidate or really uninteresting unimportant their context to your
most packs or multi candidate packs, but they can only give a maximum of $5,000
or 20 $800 to Michael Franz: TWO CANDIDATES per, per election party committees
can give some money to candidates, but that's limited and the National Party
committee can give some money to candidates, but that's limited. So the most
that a candidate can receive from Michael Franz: Any donor for any election
that they're running is Michael Franz: $5,000 at most for party committees and
for packs and 20 $800 from individuals. And I would argue that that's Michael
Franz: Pretty. It's a pretty containing process. It's one of the reasons why
candidates. Michael Franz: Have a hard time raising money because they, and
what The Book says they're often recommended that they should spend four hours
a day on the phone. Michael Franz: Raising money because it. You just can't
call up a wealthy person and say give me a million bucks. Michael Franz: Just
not allow some of us have been talking about campaign financing in our
discussion groups and kind of talking, and I'm going to say in a cavalier way.
Michael Franz: It's because we don't know the rules yet about how groups have
given candidate candidate extra candidate why so many millions of dollars they
can't do that they can spend that money, independent of the candidate. Michael
Franz: On their behalf, which is what I'll talk about below but they can't they
can't give that money to a candidate directly Michael Franz: I would argue two
parties are not are somewhat pretty contained. I would say that's an arguable
more arguable a statement in part because there's a whole bunch of Michael
Franz: Bigger contribution limits that are out there. So state, you know, here
again we can see state and local party committees national party committees.
Michael Franz: A little bit in the weeds, for us, but the party committees are
allowed certain additional accounts for things like national conventions.
Michael Franz: legal fees and so forth. And so the reason why I say it's
arguable is because if you are an individual and you wanted to give a lot of
money to a party and Michael Franz: Kind of be a big deal. The limits are very
high. So $10,000 to state and local parties per year. So that's $20,000 for a
two year cycle. Michael Franz: 35,500 per year to the national party can nice
there's $70,000 per cycle. And then these additional accounts of which the
parties can have up to three. Michael Franz: I can give them $106,000 per year
per additional account. So that's $200,000 times three of these kind of special
accounts that exists as $600,000 plus 70 $670,000 so you can see that as a
wealthy individual I could if I kind of exploited these limits up here could
give parties. Michael Franz: Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars
within the legal limit every election cycle. Michael Franz: And the limits for
packs are a bit smaller than they are for individuals and so party spent a lot
of time fundraising. Michael Franz: These big dollar donors and the party's
themselves can raise money, money in that way. But nonetheless, the limits are
kept. Michael Franz: The $100,000 limit over here is for events, like I
mentioned legal fees recount these conventions, those can be used for ads or
for electioneering things. And so the election year in money. Michael Franz: Is
in this category over here and that is smaller than than millions and millions
of dollars. So you might make the argument to that parties. Michael Franz: Have
you know a pretty significant caps on what they can spend or what they can
raise from from wealthy individuals traditional packs also not a real real
concern, in my opinion, if you look at traditional packs. Let's say these pack
or over here. You look at PAX Michael Franz: Here's their fundraising limits
but $5,000 per year from any and all of potential donors. Michael Franz: And
there are even more limits on on who they can raise money from which we can't
get into now. But the short of it would be that a union pack could only raise
money from Michael Franz: Individuals who are in the Union, and not necessarily
from from the broader public. And so there are limits on who these paths can
raise money from Michael Franz: And there are limits on how much of that money
that they can donate to candidates. And so within the sort of system of
candidates parties and traditional packs. I would argue that there are pretty
decent limits on where that money goes and comes from men. Michael Franz: There
are many concerns with their parents system but but not as Michael Franz: Not
around the issue of wealthy donors. Michael Franz: bankrolling a campaign and
spending millions of dollars to pump up their work, chest, for example. Michael
Franz: But there are big concerns and other areas. The two biggest concerns or
at least two biggest players that have Michael Franz: I think the biggest
potential to be worrisome Russ are the super PACs and the dark money groups.
Now what are, what are those I call them dark money groups over here, they're
referred to as nonprofit groups. Michael Franz: But they're largely many cases
the same thing. First, a Super PAC is a pack. It's a blue Action Committee
organized by Michael Franz: People who are interested in influencing politics.
They don't donate directly to any candidates. So in this graph over here. You
don't see Michael Franz: Super PAC listed. You see multi candidate novelty
candidate. Sometimes they're called SSF it's all interesting legal words but
they're all traditional packs super PACs are not on that. Michael Franz: Table
because they can't donate to parties and they can't donate to candidates. All
they can do is spend money, independent of them. Michael Franz: To air ads or
to try to get people to turn out to vote. They can't they can't do any direct
contributions. Michael Franz: But in return they can raise unlimited donations,
and so they can get donations of unlimited size. Michael Franz: From
individuals. And so the super PACs often will go out and have big dollar
fundraisers, and they might raise a million dollar contribution from Mark
Zuckerberg or a $5 million contribution from a Michael Franz: Corporate CEO.
That's where the big million dollars goes into these super PACs. Michael Franz:
nonprofit groups can do the same thing. They're called dark money groups.
Oftentimes, though, because they don't have to tell the FEC we won't find them
on the FEC website. Michael Franz: They don't have to tell the FTC where they
got their money, which is kind of worrisome. So that's called dark money
because we can't see where it's coming from. So you might form a nonprofit, I
might go on formed a nonprofit called the Center for a better America. Michael
Franz: The foundation for a better America or American workers for the 21st
century, give it any name you want, I'll register with the IRS is a nonprofit
group. Michael Franz: And then I'll go out and raise 10s of millions of dollars
from my friends. Michael Franz: Actually don't have any friends who have that
much money, but if I did, I could and I wouldn't have to tell anybody where I
got the money and then I could go use that money to advertise Michael Franz:
And competitive Senate races, trying to get Republicans elected or democrats
elected and so that's that's where the concern is, is all this money, big money
going into super PACs and dark money groups. Michael Franz: Now I say, but the
only saving grace here, if you will, in that negative story is that the
spending is supposed to be. Michael Franz: uncoordinated with the candidates.
It's supposed to be independent spending the campaign has no influence
whatsoever on what my foundation or center is doing. Michael Franz: And if they
do talk to me and say, Can you put more ads up on TV and such and such market
that will be breaking the law, they're not supposed to talk to me. I'm not
supposed to talk to them. Michael Franz: And so technically the candidates may
benefit from these super PAC and dark money efforts, but it's not because
they're working together. It's because the super PAC and the dark money Uber
independently deciding that they want to help you out. Michael Franz: They want
to help a candidate out Michael Franz: Now a lot of people call into question
whether or not there. It really is uncoordinated. But that's the formerly the
law is that they're not supposed to work together. I just want to show you,
just as an example, a sort of a way in which groups get around this. Michael
Franz: How do you want to call it, get around the coordination band and they
sometimes get around the coordination ban. Bye. Michael Franz: Creatively
actually. And one way to do it is to use b roll footage. So a candidate can't
tell the Center for American Progress to air ads on their behalf, but they can
say Michael Franz: Imagine them issuing a press release saying we don't have
enough money we're running low on funds, we need to stay competitive against
our opposition. Michael Franz: We need to put more ads on TV, you know, donate
today. Right. Well, people will donate to as a result. But also, that's a
signal to potential super PACs and nonprofits that maybe that's a race. We need
to go into Michael Franz: So those are super PACs and nonprofits might say,
Okay, we're going to buy a bunch of ads. Michael Franz: In that candidates race
because they just had a press release saying they need the money. And so let's
go help them out. And that's not coordination, but you know, I'm the candidate.
It's a signaling that I need the money and so that group comes on in Michael
Franz: The group is going to make ads and they're gonna put them on TV. Now,
they can't work with me. Michael Franz: If I'm the candidate to make the ads
and and it would be good if they had really good footage of the candidate to
make the ads more Michael Franz: personable to make the ads more persuasive.
Otherwise, they're going to dig around Google to look for images of the
candidate. Michael Franz: Put those images in the ad and it's not going to look
as good as a candidate add that shows them walking down the street with
constituents and things like that. So candidates decided, well, Michael Franz:
Why don't we give them that footage. Like, I can't formally give it as a
candidate to the group. But what if I just put it on my website like just
footage of me walking around and made it available to anybody. Michael Franz:
And you know just there. So they did that, they started filming themselves
campaigns are filming themselves with sort of where they call b roll footage
Michael Franz: And then they just put it on their website, or they put it on
their YouTube page and then a group will look to see if the candidate has B
roll. Michael Franz: And they can use that be role because it's publicly
available to the public domain and they'll put that inside Michael Franz: Their
ads. And so now all of a sudden the super PAC and dark money group ads look
really slick because they feature the candidates, so Michael Franz: It's it's
tricky rights clever. It's not mobile coordination, but it's it's clearly
trying to to coordinate back channels. So here's an example of them be footage
Michael Franz: This is from 2014 but it's still, it's still us. So this is Thom
Tillis when he was running in 2014 so we're watching his race this cycle to
this is his, on his website. Two minutes. We won't watch the whole thing.
Michael Franz: Why they have to have a music track some of them don't. But here
he is walking around chatting away. Michael Franz: Jumping at Michael Franz:
Now he's with the constituents. Michael Franz: There's this this light. Michael
Franz: Fullness hands you know buses arms. Michael Franz: Right, I would look
good in an ad Michael Franz: Okay, more pictures. Michael Franz: close up shot.
Michael Franz: Looking serious Michael Franz: Making a point Michael Franz:
Meeting with business people. Michael Franz: Alright, so the groups use that
they put in their ad right here's Kay Hagan she was running for reelection. She
was a Democrat 2014 she lost. She also said B roll. Michael Franz: Talking with
constituents. Michael Franz: This is free code, right, so we're Michael Franz:
Talking on the front porch. Michael Franz: Getting into it constituents.
Michael Franz: Walking with important people. Michael Franz: Doctors Michael
Franz: So you can see, like, you know, this is creative ways in which the
campaign's Michael Franz: Try to try to get try to help out the groups that are
doing the work for them. And the next lecture, I'll talk about how important
these groups have become to advertising and races and raises some concerns for
us. But this is sort of, I think, the area of biggest concern is the Michael
Franz: Is the role of outside groups and the inability to sort of track dark
money and the capacity to somehow work around the coordination band. Michael
Franz: Between the candidate and the outside groups in the realm of of Michael
Franz: Fundraising the direct fundraising that happens. I tend to think that
the contribution limits are pretty good at keeping wealthy donors from having a
direct and Michael Franz: Say nefarious impact on the money that campaigns
directly have and use. So let's, let's talk about that. Let's talk about some
of the resources that are available to us to to track this so I'm going to go
back to Michael Franz: Sharing for a little bit and Michael Franz: This is our
Blackboard page. And here's the data dive to which is Michael Franz: The prompt
for us, or using some of these resources to track campaign fundraising over
here. I know that. Michael Franz: There are reporting dates, which campaigns
and party committees and packs up to report to the to the FCC, the Federal
Election Commission. Michael Franz: And so you can see that the schedule.
There's a quarterly schedule for congressional campaigns. Michael Franz: Where
the close of books is September 30 and then they have to file their stuff by
the middle of October. Michael Franz: There's also a pre general election
period so midway through October. They also need to summarize their fundraising
in the first half of the month. Michael Franz: And then report that to the FEC
by October 20 seconds. So by the 15th AND BY THE 22nd then there'll be some
lag. Michael Franz: As they get those those data into the into the system will
see a whole bunch of new fundraising numbers and Spending, and spending values
for Michael Franz: For our, our campaigns that we're tracking, but right now
all we have is the July quarterly tools which will take us to the end of June.
Michael Franz: And so we'll see that in the in the data itself. So there are
two websites that we're going to use to track all this. The first is Federal
Election Commission website, which is where I was just was Michael Franz:
That's where all the data go and in the center for a sponsor of politics, which
takes all that FEC data and puts it into a usable format for for us and it's
it's it's it's good. Michael Franz: FEC data has gotten better their websites
gotten a lot better over the years and Center for Responsive Politics, it's not
as Michael Franz: I think it's flexible as the FCC, but they both give a
certain certain things that we can we can do with the data. So if we go to the
Federal action conditions site. Michael Franz: We're going to do a couple of
examples. Today we're what we want to do is go up to this campaign finance data
at the top. Michael Franz: And we're first going to start with the raising
raising and spending. Those are the two main things we're interested in. So
when I click on raising Michael Franz: And it's going to bring us to a browse
data page. And I would say, let's look at all receipts and so will click on all
receipts. Michael Franz: And all the receipts for all candidates that we have
so far into entered into the system and so you'll see their hundred and 39
million rows here is a lot of data. Michael Franz: But we're not going to look
at, you know, all of it. We want to look at specific hand candidates. So let's
say we're interested in looking at Michael Franz: Kendra horn, who is a
congressional candidate. So if we start typing Kendra horn is the recipient
will see Kendra horn for Congress pop up right over right over here. And so we
can select her Michael Franz: And then you'll see up top here that we have the
process data in the system for the 2019 2020 election cycle. Michael Franz:
Between the dates January 1 2019 and the end of this year for Kendra horn for
Congress. And so this is all the contributions that Kendra horn has received
Michael Franz: As reported by the end of the second quarter of 2020 and so the
recipient is can run for Congress. And here's the contributed name. Michael
Franz: Okay, and you can see the recipient date state and the election for
which it was donated so somebody has donated for the primary some money is
donated for the general Michael Franz: Now this is an interesting example
because Michael Franz: We're going to run into some interesting challenges
right off right off the bat. So allow me to go up here and here's the amount
and I can actually sort this amount. So if I wanted to sort by recipient date.
Michael Franz: And I go down this way you'll see all the last dates up here are
June 30 that's the last day that we have data for congressional candidates
because of the quarterly filing schedule. So let me go up here and sort by
amount which is the biggest and smallest amounts Michael Franz: And you're
immediately going to run into some interesting challenges and looking at Kendra
horn, because you'll see that she got what appears to be a contribution from
the house victory project 2020 any amount of 200 and almost turning $40,000
Michael Franz: This is the challenge of using these data because it doesn't
easily tell us that that's actually not a $240,000 contribution from an outside
group. Michael Franz: As I showed you in the the slide PowerPoint slide the
most that Kendra horn can receive from any individual or outside group is much,
much smaller than that. Michael Franz: So how is this, what is happening here.
Well, it turns out that a lot. And this is true to behold the house. Victory
Fund, the New Democratic coalition majority fund. Michael Franz: Maintaining a
majority and other groups where you see large contributions that seemed to
exceed the contribution limits. These are what are called Michael Franz: joint
fundraising committees and they're organized by the parties and are organized
by candidates who are affiliated with the parties. Michael Franz: And so the
joint fundraising committee is sort of a fundraising link between the parties
and the candidates and here's how it might work. Kendra horn. We'll have plenty
of fundraisers, but she might also decide to fundraise Michael Franz: in
coordination with her party. And so they might have a big fundraiser where four
or five members of Congress come together and have a fundraiser. Michael Franz:
And they all asked everybody there to donate Michael Franz: And instead of
writing five checks in the five different congressional campaigns and instead
of writing additional checks to the party committees. Michael Franz: And as I
mentioned, the party committees have a couple different constituent parts
running all these different shacks Michael Franz: They work together and they
create one fund one big old fund. Michael Franz: That collects everything so I
might write a check. Again, I don't have as much money to do this but I might
write a check for Michael Franz: $500,000 and then might give that $500,000 to
the joint fundraising committee with the proviso that Michael Franz: Certain
chunk goes to Canada horn a certain chunk goes to someone else's certain chunk
of someone else. It gets allocated out within the limits. Michael Franz: But I
just write one check because that's easier for me than writing a bunch of
checks or authorizing a bunch of individual Michael Franz: Separate
contributions to all the different party committees and candidates. Michael
Franz: So that's what a fundraiser joint fundraising committee is so the house
victory project 2020 in this case is transferring $240,000 that was raised for
Kensal horn. Michael Franz: From individuals and packs who contributed to the
fund at a fundraiser, probably a fundraiser. Michael Franz: And it's, it's, and
that's all it is. And so there's other fundraising parties have lots of fun
racing committees. Michael Franz: It's legal. It just allows individuals to
write larger checks and then have that money distributed on the back end to
varieties recipients Michael Franz: And so oftentimes see that if I scroll down
a little bit, you'll start to see that that drops off pretty fast. Michael
Franz: And you'll start to see individual people show up Joshua Becker
Einstein, for example, from Massachusetts donated 50 $600 that 50 $600 is 2800
Michael Franz: times two times two. So that's one contribution for the primary
one contribution for the general you see here show up as a general election
contribution, but because it's 5600 Michael Franz: It's meant to be applied to
the general and the primary and so you can see I'm assuming this as soon as his
wife, or maybe Michael Franz: His sister or something, I don't know, probably
his wife who donated the same thing. And so how does husband and wife spouses
can do can do that. They're individuals. And so you'll start to see Michael
Franz: I see a contribution from from the D triple C itself and from House
Majority pack and another group Emily's list. And these are all $5,000
contributions, because that's the max. Michael Franz: That parties and packs
can give to to these candidates, I can kind of keep going and then I start to
see Michael Franz: More groups. And then once the dollar contribution starting
a little smaller. I'll start to see individual names show up Rosen and Zander
Donald Sussman. Okay. Michael Franz: gave some money 20 $800 another 20 $800
for the general primary Larry stone gave 20 $800 you'll also sometimes see act
blue and you may have heard about act blue Michael Franz: At blue is kind of
like a joint fundraising committee, except it's an online platform for you to
give to lots of candidates in one spot. So instead of going into Kendra horns
website. Michael Franz: I might go to act blue, and I would contribute to
Kendra horn and I would contribute to another democrat and I could do it all in
one platform, instead of having to go to multiple platforms and enter my
contributions. Michael Franz: And fundraising or credit card information
separately and actually does and an A on the back end, send the money out to
the candidates. And so this is a transfer from at Blue Michael Franz: To the
campaign sending along contributions that individuals gave to the carrot
actually just access the intermediary Michael Franz: It's totally legal. It's
just a way to facilitate contributions to Democrats and so you can kind of go
through here and you can pick apart. Look at all the different all the
different dumb contributions that Michael Franz: That they gave individuals
gave. Okay. Michael Franz: Let me do another thing, which is to say, sometimes
I might say, Well, I want to look at look at. I'm going to take away, Kendra, I
want to look at Jared gold. Michael Franz: Just looking at my notes here to
make sure Michael Franz: I did that right okay look at Jared golden from from
me. So I'm going to go to general golden Michael Franz: And I'm going to see
something here that's interesting. I'm going to see three Jared golden
committees, there's the Jared golden Victory Fund. Michael Franz: The Jared
gold another Jared golden Victory Fund called 2020 and then the committee to
elect Jericho. So if you're looking at you see these, you might say, well, what
are these right. What are these. So what if I go to the Jared golden Victory
Fund. Michael Franz: I won't see anything. So I'll take him off. And I'll go to
Michael Franz: 2021 let's say it's about a 2020 Michael Franz: See if it pops
up. Okay, I'll get it. So I'm not gonna have a lot of data here only nine
things. But let me just click on is Jared golden the recipient Jared golden
Victory Fund. Michael Franz: It might take a minute to pop them and then you'll
see some summary information, which I'll talk about in a second. Michael Franz:
I'll come back to them, but I want to click over here and say about this
committee, so I'm gonna click on this committee and I want to go to the
statement of organization. Michael Franz: And so this is the forum file by the
Jared golden victory fun 2020 and I want to go down here and I'm going to find
out what type of committee, it is Michael Franz: And look, it says it's a joint
fundraising representative. What that means is, this is the, the part of the
joint fundraising. Michael Franz: Apparatus. That is collecting contributions
on behalf of Jared golden at these these fundraising kind of events. Michael
Franz: You can see this committee collects contributions paste Fundraising
Expenses intersperses proceeds for two or more political committees. Michael
Franz: Organizations, at least one of which is an authorized committee with
federal candidate so it collects contributions. Michael Franz: Participating
for the committee to elect Jared golden by so we don't if you run into that
where you see a couple of different committees with Michael Franz: The set the
name of the candidate in it. You don't want to, you want to click through and
you want to find the one is the actual Michael Franz: Campaign Committee, and
that's going to be the committee to elect Jericho. So I'm gonna go over here
and I'm going to commit to it. Jerry golden and now I'm going to look and see
Michael Franz: His numbers. And so I can click on this and I can see okay house
victory project 2020 he's got 250 $6,000 that's fun joint fundraising proceeds.
Michael Franz: So, and then I'll scroll down and I'll start to see smaller
contributions from PAX individuals as I get farther down Michael Franz: Now I
can go and I can click on the committee to elect Jared gold and it's going to
take me to a summary page. Michael Franz: And you might want to check this out
for your candidate as well. This financial summary page is really important.
It'll say, here the coverage dates January 1 to June 30 Michael Franz: And then
it will tell me how much contributions, they've received, how much money
individual how many total contributions from individuals. Michael Franz: And
then transfers from other committees and how many loans. It's taken out and how
much money and how much money is spent down over here disbursement. So I get
some summary information there. Michael Franz: A itemize an itemized
contributions are really important and itemize individual contribution is a
contribution from an individual that totals more than $200 Michael Franz: Only
individual donations greater than $200 will show up on the previous page that I
showed you Michael Franz: an itemized individual contributions or small
contributions below the $200 threshold. So if I give a $50 check to Jared
golden Michael Franz: He's not gonna listen my name on the website. So that's
considered anonymized individual contribution. So it's a good way to figure out
how many small donations, a candidate has received Michael Franz: By looking at
the itemized total against the anonymous tool. And so he's raised four times as
much money in increments of $200 or more than he has for increments of less
than $2 so it gives you a sense of how much small donor donor support a
candidate has Michael Franz: Other committee contributions are pack dollars.
And so he's got $400,000 and pac money compared to $2 million individual money
so he's raised a lot more from individuals and he has from from packs so you
can learn a lot about a campaign sort of profile that way. Michael Franz: Now
let me go back to the other side, which is the spending, I can do the same
exact thing for spending, I go to spend it. Michael Franz: And I get
disbursements disbursements are going to allow me to look up a candidate and
find out what they spend money on. So let me go and look up, Kendra horn.
Michael Franz: She'll pop up. You'll see again that the end date is June 30 so
we don't have new data in there, but I can go sort on amount because I want to
see how much money she spent the biggest amount on and you can see that she's
spent $115,000 on a meeting by Michael Franz: online advertising consultants
more online advertising some printing costs and the farther down, you get, the
more you know you see payroll and you can see all sorts of interesting things
they've spent their money on Michael Franz: What's also cool to see the venues.
So for online advertising. They appear to use the vendor called new blue
interactive Michael Franz: But for a media buyer for TV ads. They're using sage
media plan. I don't know anything about those groups, but that's, you know,
that gives you a sense you could go and even Google those those Michael Franz:
Companies and find out a little bit about them. They use research services from
this group called normington pets and Associates. I don't know anything about
them, you could you could dig around like find some. So who are these
recipients Michael Franz: They use a fundraising consultant service and they
use a payroll company, you know, and so forth. If you go all you know you can
start to see some interesting things with smaller totals. You know, a lot of
payroll. Michael Franz: A lot of printing. Here's some travel. I must have gone
to the faith and politics Institute. They paid be stroke Cat Cat cola for
catering Michael Franz: 20 2101 strategies for graphic design, things like
that. So it's really interesting to look at the biggest disbursements and see
who they're who they're using as as consultants and media buyers. Michael
Franz: So now let me show you the open secrets website so open secrets can use
the same exact data, but they're going to give us a couple of cool additional
things we can play with. So I'm going to go here. Michael Franz: And open
secrets has a lot of stuff on here which want to do is go up to menu and click
on congressional elections. Michael Franz: And it's going to ask you to look
real estate or look for a candidate. So I'm going to look for Kendra one
already looked at the camera. So, there she is. And she's going to search
Michael Franz: And I'm going to find Kendra horn running in Oklahoma for 2020
ways and Michael Franz: The interesting piece here is that they'll have more
data for the incumbents and they will for the challenges. So you can see this
as hyperlink but Stephanie bias is not hyperlinked so it's a little frustrating
there. But if you go to the candidates tab. Michael Franz: You'll get some
information that is also on the FEC site. Michael Franz: But it's it's
organized here a little bit, maybe more, intuitively, so you can see small
contributions. This is the anonymized contributions. Michael Franz: Versus the
large contributions and then they do the percentages for you, versus the pack
contributions and they also include myself findings and if there's any self
financing. Michael Franz: They do that for Stephanie based as well so you can
find out who she's raising money from a lot less paper packs as a percent then
Kendra horn. Michael Franz: And so that's kind of neat. They also have a tab up
here for geography that allows you to see. Michael Franz: Where these
candidates are raising money from in state or out of state. So you can see
Kendall horn has raised Michael Franz: $1.3 million from out of state and
Stephanie biases raised, most of the money from in state. So that's kind of
kind of neat. Michael Franz: And I think that's useful to look at. And because
oftentimes in state versus out of state money is considered you know better,
right, if you raising money from within your state or within the district
versus, you know, Michael Franz: Money coming from the coasts, the evil coasts,
right. So, or in district or out of district countries. So they have some nice
geography breakdowns there. Michael Franz: They also tell you a little bit
about outside spending. So are there any groups spending money, independent of
the campaigns on their behalf. Michael Franz: And this is data that they get
also from the FCC and the type of money that's being spent. So the
congressional leadership fund has been spending money $1.6 million Michael
Franz: In the race. Michael Franz: And it's color coded by whether they're
republican leaning or democratic leaning groups. Michael Franz: And so you can
learn a little bit more about the total money being spent to support or oppose
these campaigns from outside groups. This is the uncoordinated spending.
Michael Franz: And then the final tab. That's really interesting. That's really
new. This cycle is some totals that they can glean from how much money is being
spent. Michael Franz: Online for advertising. We have pretty good TV data. We
don't have great we didn't have great Facebook, Google, spending data. You can
see how much money these candidates are spending. Michael Franz: On these
different platforms and it doesn't appear to be that they're spending much in
comparison to, you know, other things. So we saw Kendra horn had paid some
consultants for Michael Franz: online advertising, we go back over here and we
go up to the top. Michael Franz: So, excuse me as I go back Michael Franz: You
can see she is using new blue interactive to spend a fair amount of money on
digital advertising. What we see so far from that. Michael Franz: Is that she
hasn't she spent about $100,000 and Stephanie by spending more now in the
disbursements total this new blue interactive is getting Michael Franz: You
know 10s of thousands of dollars, which you will use to buy the ads and that's
what's showing up. Michael Franz: Over here, the money used to buy the ads, but
they're also taking their own consulting fees and paying themselves. And so the
total reported in the FTC will always be greater than the total reported
Michael Franz: Over here, because this is how much money they use to actually
buy the ads, not to pay the people to make the ads and to, you know, research,
the ads and so forth. So, so you get a couple of different additional
interesting pieces of data there. Michael Franz: So that's a lot and you may
need to go back and kind of rewatch the sort of tutorial but I think you should
play around with. Michael Franz: The, the FCC and the open secrets center for
response of politics websites and and try to glean from them what you can have
the candidates in your race, you're going to run into some challenges and you
gotta run into some questions. Michael Franz: And that's good because none of
this is intuitive. So you should write those questions down, bring them to our
discussion groups. Michael Franz: And asked me about them. And then what we can
do as a class is we can look them up together, we can go find what you're
having a hard time understanding and we can troubleshoot it and decipher it and
figure it out. Michael Franz: I won't have all the answers. I spent a lot of
time studying this, and I do enjoy trying to piece together all the puzzles but
you know it's Michael Franz: It is something we can figure out and we should do
that. So you can dig around and post on a day to die, you can dig around and
bring those thoughts to the discussion group and you can keep doing that as new
data. Michael Franz: Arrive into the system and and I look forward to having
those conversations. So that's my Michael Franz: That's my thoughts on that and
then I will switch gears in a minute and do lecture two. And then we'll talk
about that in our second group next week. So thanks a lot, and I look forward
to. I look forward to our chats. 
