Michael Franz: Hi everybody, I'm back. And I want to talk for a little while
now about political advertising and this is my, my favorite topic and Michael
Franz: We're going to spend some more time on it later in the semester when we,
when we see the ads that are airing and the races that you're tracking Michael
Franz: And it's fun to watch these ads and the ads are appearing now in so many
different ways their TV ads or Facebook ads or Google Search Ads. Michael
Franz: Ads galore their ads on Hulu. I've been watching some shows on Hulu and
I've seen a lot of ad Gideon ads on who their ads on on radio streaming
services like Pandora. Michael Franz: political ads before videos on YouTube.
They're everywhere. And so we've got so much data we don't know what to do with
it. But we've got pretty good consistent data on TV advertising and chapter
eight and identity crisis talks about the likely effect of advertising in the
2016 campaign. Michael Franz: And it points out that in fact Clinton's ads
probably were generally effective, but that there weren't enough of them to
make the difference in in closer races and Michael Franz: So many other factors
were happening and going on in the fall of that year, but that advertising is
important and it's an important component about campaigns and take shape.
Michael Franz: Now 111 way that it's important, is it is a way for us to
document what the campaigns are saying and what they think the campaign is
about. But another way is to see Michael Franz: The possible effects of those
ads. We can't say much about effects at this point, I'll talk more about
effects. Michael Franz: When we talk about political ads. I've spent a lot of
time trying to estimate the effects of ads on on voters. Michael Franz: But I
want to talk a little bit about two aspects of of the campaign that are a
campaign ads that I think are relevant. Michael Franz: The first is, again,
what it says about the priorities of the candidates what they think are
important for voters to know and then I want to talk about the volume
differences, the effects of Michael Franz: Or at least I should say that the
distribution of ads across the country and and whether one candidate is airing
more ads than another candidate now. Michael Franz: On 2016. One of the things
that the book mentions and this is it comes out of some of the research I've
done on TV ads in 2016 Michael Franz: Is that, as you know, Clinton tried to
make the campaign about Trump's moral PERSONAL FAILINGS and spend a lot of time
hearing advertisements. Michael Franz: Like one of the famous ones called role
models that simply played some tracks of Trump speaking and repeating a lot of
misogynistic statements against Michael Franz: Young images of with young girls
and and and and young people watching Trump say these things, pointing out that
he's not a role model. Michael Franz: Certainly not a role model to shouldn't
be a role model to women and it's definitely not a role model to young people
more generally wouldn't want your, your child. Michael Franz: To look up to
someone like Donald Trump. That was the message that that Clinton was was
sending in her campaign ads. Michael Franz: And we can quantify that. And we
can quantify that in very interesting ways. And I want to show you some data
from 2016 that the authors of identity crisis allude to Michael Franz: And then
I want to show you some data from from 2020 based on what we know so far. So
when, when we look at ads. We can code ads on a variety of characteristics one
characteristic that we can code ads on is its tone, we can say is this ad
solely about the opposing candidate. Michael Franz: Is this ad solely about the
favorite or sponsoring candidate or is this ad feature both candidates. If the
ad is only about the opposing candidate, we might call that an attack ad
Michael Franz: Without necessarily knowing anything about what's in it. If the
ad is solely about you as a candidate. Well, we might call that a positive and
under the assumption that you would only say nice things about yourself.
Michael Franz: And if the ad mentions both you might call it a positive and a
negative and we might call that contrasting and so we have positive, negative,
and contrast ads as a distinction Michael Franz: We can ask coders to assess
what issues are being mentioned in the ads and we can also ask coders to assess
ads on this next question, which is, do you think the ad is primarily about
policy issues. Michael Franz: Is it about the poor about the personal
characteristics of the candidates or do you think the ad is equally about both
Michael Franz: And interestingly, when we asked coders this question, we say,
what does the ad primarily about because even policy ads can have implications
about the PERSONAL FAILINGS or Michael Franz: pluses of a campaign and even
personality focused ads can implicitly be about policy issues. Michael Franz:
We're interested in what the primarily the ad is about is this ad really
talking about policy matters. Michael Franz: Is it really talking about
PERSONAL FAILINGS or personal characteristics or is it really about both
Michael Franz: And so we've been asking that question to coders for 20 years
and we have 20 years of data to analyze and I've put up for us a graph that
shows some of the data that we've collected over the years and I need to
Michael Franz: Let's see. Michael Franz: I need to share my screen. Once that
Michael Franz: window is open and it will show it to me. Good. So I've put this
in Blackboard and it's ads by focus in the presidential election, and I'm a
little write up on this. Michael Franz: And you can see that we can look at
22,000 2004 2008 2012 and 2016 and we look at ads in the same time period
overall these campaigns June 8 Michael Franz: To Election Day in all of these
years, June 8 by June 8 the nominees were known in each party. And so it's it's
sort of an unofficial beginning of the general election. That's sort of common
across all the campaigns. Michael Franz: And this looks at the sponsored ads by
the candidates and whether the ads were primarily about policy matters personal
matters, or both. Michael Franz: And this is about all the airings of all their
ads. So this counts up all the the air at times and add airs across the country
in the general election, and then just count the percentage of ads that aired
or about policy matters personal characteristics or both. And, you know,
Michael Franz: Clinton's stroke a strategy and in 2016 stands out. It really
stands out in the comparison. Michael Franz: In almost all the case in all the
cases, except for maybe McCain in 2008 and I'll say something about that in a
minute. Michael Franz: And almost all of the comparisons in all the
comparisons. But those two. So in eight other campaigns, more than 60% of the
ads aired in the general election of the presidential campaign. We're about
Michael Franz: policy matters primarily more than 60% and sometimes even higher
than that bush spent 75% of his time advertising time talking about policy
matters. Michael Franz: Gore spent over 60% of his time bush spent over 60% of
his time talking about policy matters carry in 2004 Kerry spent about three
quarters talking about policy matters. Michael Franz: Romney and 2012 spend
over 80% of his time talking about policy matters and Obama about three
quarters on policy matters, the personal characteristics focus Michael Franz:
Is is, you know, relatively small in most of these years, almost non existent
in the Bush v. Gore campaign. Michael Franz: A little bit president in Bush v.
Kerry in 2004 reach them as talking a little bit about their own personal
characteristics, how, why they are the right leader for the country or why
Michael Franz: The other candidate is a flawed candidate bush is talking about
911 he's promoting his own his own considered moral leadership Carrie is
talking about his, his history in Vietnam and talking about his, his
background. Michael Franz: In 2008 we see some a little bit of divergence with
McCain where MCCAIN IS CAREFUL, he goes after Obama a lot Michael Franz: But he
mixes it with policy matters. So McCain has a lot of ads in 2008 that call into
question Obama's personal Michael Franz: Fitness for office is too
inexperienced he's he's, he hasn't done anything in his life of any substance.
I have. I was a POW and and a lot of personal stuff, but also mixing it with
policy and so coders assessed. A lot of these ads is both Michael Franz: Not a
lot of direct attacks for McCain on Obama's fitness for office, but a lot of
promotion from Obama about his own personal background and not a lot of attacks
on on McCain in that regard. Michael Franz: But still an overwhelming focus in
most of these campaigns on on policy matters. Michael Franz: In 2016 Clinton
spends most of her time and this doesn't show this in this figure, but she
doesn't spend a lot of time talking about her own personal characteristics.
Michael Franz: Not almost none of this in here is her airing advertisements
about her personal qualities. Almost all of these advertisements are about like
the book talks about role model. Ads. Ads that play Michael Franz: Track of
Trump talking and point out that he's is impossible for us to imagine in the
White House. And this approach from Clinton. Michael Franz: We've never seen
this approach from a presidential candidate in the in the 16 years of data at
the time that we had Michael Franz: Yeah, there are some campaigns that focus
on personal characteristics in the ad buys but almost all of these are a mix of
positive and negative mentions positive mentions of themselves negative
mentions of the opponent. Michael Franz: This is all negative mentions of Trump
as a person and it's the lowest focus in the campaign that campaigns that we
have on policy matters. So there isn't a lot of both going on here from
Clinton. Michael Franz: And there isn't a lot of policy going on in front of
the only one in four of cleanse ads focused primarily on policy matters, you
know, somewhere like 60% Michael Franz: Are a little more focused on the
personal feelings of Trump and that is a remarkable change from previous
elections and it's important to put that context. Michael Franz: That
historical context, alongside the analysis that the authors do in chapter seven
and eight, and especially in chapter eight. Now we do have some initial data
from 2020 and I wanted to share that with you. It's pretty rough and ready
Michael Franz: One problem that we oftentimes have is, we're still assessing
what's called inner coder reliability. Michael Franz: In our quarter
reliability is where you ask coders who code an ad to code other people's
coated ads. And then you ask those folks to code the first coders ads and you
try to see how how often they get the same answer. Michael Franz: On these
kinds of qualitative or subjective questions in previous years are in a quarter
reliability tests on inner on these personal policy distinctions have been
pretty good. Michael Franz: Because we train the coders really well in 2020 our
numbers are pretty low on the quarter reliability. So I'm going to show you
numbers from 20 Michael Franz: But we don't fully believe them yet, because we
need to go and do some quality control on the coders assessments. Michael
Franz: And have some ads coated again, but it gives us a, you know, I believe
these numbers, but I think I couldn't publish with these numbers because our
inner coder reliability tests need to get Michael Franz: A little better for
2020 anyway. But I've been doing and running some some numbers. So I'm going to
show you Michael Franz: This Statistical Package called status, where I don't
have a fancy graph for us on this one because we're just these are numbers hot
off the presses. These are for ads that have aired between April 9 so that's
this year's general election period and Michael Franz: September 13 so we don't
have the full campaign yet and so you'll see the Democrat here in this case
that's Biden. So this is just Biden ads and the Republican. That's just Trump
ads. Michael Franz: And then we have person versus policy distinctions. We have
some that are neither here, the person personal ads policy ads and then both
and then I'm showing the row per cents. Michael Franz: Here, the real percent
of the percent across the row cross the line and they some 200 so you can see
that the Democrat Biden has aired about 34% of his ads are primarily about
policy matters. Michael Franz: That's a much lower than Clinton's in 2016 about
54% of his are primarily policy matters and then 10% of both. So if you combine
the both with the personal Michael Franz: You know, Biden is is spending about
440 percent little less than half of his ads on some personal matters either
his own self or critiques of of Trump Michael Franz: That's much lower than
Clinton, but still much higher than other the other the other candidates in the
graph. I just showed you. Michael Franz: Trump is spending almost all of his
ads are about policy matters. Now that might mention the sort of anarchy that
might ensue if bide were elected. But if anarchy and Sue's if Biden is elected
is not Michael Franz: A primarily policy or personal attack on Biden as a, as a
person. It is a message about the policy consequences of electing bite. Michael
Franz: So even the tough law and order messages that Trump has been airing in
the summer are still policy ads because they're focused on Michael Franz: The
concern would happen if you elect Joe Biden. Not that Joe Biden is sleepy. You
hear that sleepy Joe Biden attack all the time in Trump's tweets, but they
don't show up in his ads. It's really about Michael Franz: The policy issues
that Trump is either promoting or that he is critiquing. And so you can see the
distinction here again between the two campaigns. Michael Franz: Biden spending
plenty of time talking about personal matters and Trump, not so much and and
that's kind of what we saw in 2016 too. And so Michael Franz: Now, some people
have said that Clinton should have done more policy based messages and and and
I think that's probably right people. People prefer those over personal
attacks. Michael Franz: I don't know if that would have won the election or not
this time around. You can see some cautiousness in the Biden campaign and
adopting the same approach that that Clinton did in 2016 Michael Franz: But
that may change if the campaign over the course of the next 40 or so days.
Michael Franz: But that's the difference between 2016 and 2020 is Biden shifted
a little bit more towards policy, but still 55% is below that 60% threshold
that I talked about. Michael Franz: With the other bunch of candidates besides
Clinton and McCain focus overwhelmingly on policy matters. So that's, I think,
an interesting thing to think about the next is to talk about volume effects or
volume differences and the the book and Chapter eight mentions for us. Michael
Franz: The balance of advertising. This is in Figure 812 on page 192 the
balance of advertising in in the campaign from June, all the way to Michael
Franz: Election Day. Well, I have the same set of data that the authors do and
I wanted to look at the 2020 balance. And so I put that into Blackboard. And
let me just show that to you here. Michael Franz: Here you can see Trump is
focusing and over 70% of his ads on policy matters. This time around, he's up
to 90% so we'll see how that changes over the next 40 days, um, Michael Franz:
Let's see. Michael Franz: Here I have two sets of data for us. And this this
mirrors the exact structure in Figure 812 Michael Franz: From the book. So each
of these dots as the the footnote in the figure talks about is a medium market.
Michael Franz: And a medium market is like Portland, Maine, and all of the
surrounding areas that can see ads in our TV shows in the Portland, Maine
market and or Boston Michael Franz: or New York or Philadelphia or Baltimore
New Orleans Milwaukee Detroit. These are all big metro areas. Michael Franz:
Where the TV signal extends into the suburbs around those areas and those
become are called media markets that 210 media markets in the country. Michael
Franz: So if you count up the number of ads that Trump and Biden and all their
allies have aired on each media market on each day. Michael Franz: And you plot
that from April when the general election started when Bernie finally dropped
out, which is about 208 days before election day, all the way up to the latest
data we have which is September 13 Michael Franz: You have media market by day
and you just plot the number of ads that Biden aired minus the number of ads
that Trump has aired Michael Franz: And anything above zero is a market day
we're Biden has more ads. Anything below zero is a market day where Trump has
more ads. Michael Franz: And then you can just see what's happening in the ad
more. And this is exactly what figure 12 has for 2016 and so I'll show you
below here just a smoother fit. Michael Franz: But you can see here that
there's a bunch of days and markets were in especially out here where Trump is
out advertising Biden. Michael Franz: And then it appears as if Biden has
turned the title, a little bit and started out advertising Trump and you can
see that down here. Now this numbers, this, this, this moving average to sort
of just gets a sort of sense of the trend line. Michael Franz: Is under is an
understatement of of the likely importance here for one I've made the y axis,
the same y axis distance that's in figure a 12 Michael Franz: Negative 600
positive 600 but the range here as much tighter. If I were to just show you.
Negative 200 200 you'd see these numbers, you know, zoom in on them. And you'd
see Michael Franz: You know, more movement in in the graph. And the reason why.
It understates things is because look over here, you know, in this stretch of
time. Michael Franz: First of all, in Figure 812 there aren't many days where
Trump is out advertising Clinton. If you go back and look Clinton a consistent
advertising lead throughout the campaign and they mentioned that and Michael
Franz: She was out advertising a lot well in the early part of the general
election Trump was out advertising by. And if you think about each of these as
a market. Michael Franz: Each one each of these appear as a market and a day.
This is the sort of moving average of all of that. And if you can imagine every
single day. Michael Franz: For, you know, day in and day out, day in and day
out. There are more ads on TV for Trump, and by every single day over and over
and over again. The message dominance that builds up Michael Franz: For Trump
is extensive across the country 10s of thousands of ads overwhelming the amount
of ads that Biden is airing and so these numbers here look just a little below
zero. Michael Franz: But it's a consistent if you if you would graph. Say for
example, the cumulative at moving average, if that is a thing that exists, but
the cumulative effect of all these Michael Franz: Ad buys Trump would be
building big, big leads and how many ads were on TV across the country on
behalf of him. Michael Franz: And so he's really pummeling Biden and has
consistent advantages but then at some point in the summer, we start to see
Biden spend more money and Biden starts to bounce out with Trump and then for a
while, roughly in the Michael Franz: August period through through much of up
until roughly now by has been out advertising Trump and has been doing so. So
did so significantly for a chunk of time in here, day after day after day.
Michael Franz: Out advertising Trump in media markets across the country. And
by the time you hit September 13 we're back to around even Michael Franz: On
average day in and day out across these media markets and you can see that over
here to you see there are, there's sort of a gap here aren't many dots down
here because Biden is is is really going strong. Michael Franz: And then we've
seen this lead sort of constrict and we start to see more days over here where
Trump in some places has more ads on TV. And so that's why it's pulling the
number to roughly zero line and so Michael Franz: You know what we know in
political science is that if you out advertise your opponent. Michael Franz:
You'll do better, right, because there are more messages on TV more messages
going to voters that say good things about you. Michael Franz: And less than
say good things about them. And so people are seeing that information and
they're taking that information and higher doses. Michael Franz: And that's,
you know, an important way to pick up, pull numbers well balanced means that it
can cancel out good messages for you are balanced out by bad messages. Michael
Franz: About you, and good messages for them or balanced out by your bad
messages about them. And so it all kind of cancels. And so you want to have an
advantage of the advertising totals. And you can see how Michael Franz: Trump
did for a while then Biden did for a while. And as we get closer to election
day, we can track and see what that looks like. Michael Franz: Once we get
towards the final part of the campaign. And so, you know, the two things about
advertising that I think kind of emerged for me. Michael Franz: In this chapter
eight that are relevant to us here is those two points about how we can learn
something about the priorities of the candidates and what they say in their ads
and certainly a priority of Clinton was to point out Trump's failings. Some
extent that's being Michael Franz: borne out by Biden's approach, but with more
policy focus. And the other thing is to look at the balance of ads and to see
Michael Franz: Who's up and who's, who's down and some of that will help move
the poll numbers so Michael Franz: Have you here, eager to hear what you
thought about those those aspects and look forward to chatting. Michael Franz:
And and in addition to all the other great stuff that's in these chapters, and
by the end of this conversation. Michael Franz: And this discussion around this
book, I think we have a really solid basis on which to analyze Michael Franz:
And and dig into the 2012 presidential campaign and look for these dynamics.
This cycle, to the extent that we can. We don't have the same survey data.
Michael Franz: That the authors of identity crisis do, but we could pick up on
what the narrative in the media is about this campaign and look for some of
that stuff in the polling data when we have it so. Michael Franz: Thanks for
listening and I will, I will talk to you all very soon. 
